[Music]
wow so that was that was a hell of a
call this
morning yeah man that was that that was
humbling that was beautiful yeah we just
had the the opening call for the for
this year's great decisions course and
we've had the most signups we've ever
had and the biggest cohort I think we're
at what 130 people yeah just about yeah
yeah yeah and surely a lot of people are
going going to be asking about the uh
how they can use the use this Tool uh in
their lives going beyond the course so
I'm excited to talk about
this yeah I I think it's important to
start with like somebody's like
emotional inquiry what the hell are you
talking about I let's start there what
to me that's the big piece is like what
is it yeah what is what is the essence
yeah what's the what's the essence of
the of the tool
yeah
so I would say we have these emotional
experiences and um some of them are we
don't resist and some of them we resist
and so this is a tool for when you
resist an emotional experience this
often happens in like a millisecond a
split
second like something comes up you push
it away and jump into your social media
or something comes up and you like push
it away and get to work right and so
it's for those moments that's what the
tool is for and what it is is taking
that emotional experience and looking at
it exploring it the way a little kid
would pick up a frog and explore frog or
the way that um a little kid would look
at um an
antill and the important thing there is
that it's it's like it's basically
looking your at your emotional
experiences Through The Eyes of you so
it's vulnerable which means you actually
allow it to to touch you you actually
feel it it's um impartial meaning you're
not trying to change it you're not
trying to change your emotional
experience which can be a trick we can
talk about that in a bit um and then
you're full of wonder and you're having
empathy for yourself right where you're
not lost in the story but you're not
dismissing the story right you're not
lost in the emotional experience but
you're not dismissing the emotional
experience and so so so you're in View
and that that's basically the practice
and it looks like a guide of meditation
um will put I'm sure at some point a a
way for people to access it in the show
notes or whatnot but um it feels like a
guided meditation at first um and that's
how we teach it is through a guided
meditation but it it soon can become
very
automatic so I heard I heard you say
how I heard you mention how it's like a
like a kid playing with a frog and
there's a lot of different ways a lot of
different kids might play with a frog
and so one one thing that I've noticed
especially coming from like a scientific
intellectual perspective I might look at
a frog like a little kid would dissect a
frog and you're like oh okay here's
here's what's going on here's what this
means here's where this came from here's
what mom or dad said that made this
happened this way and now we're now
we're here and here's what I should do
is that yeah how does that relate to
what you mean it's more the way the
more well think about I think that
that's an age thing so I'm talking about
like a three-year-old kid like they grab
the Frog and they pick it up and they
smell it and they look at it and they
look at all angles of it and they touch
it and they it's like this this very
interactive very sematic very physical
experience with just like the Wonder and
abandoned of a little kid
yeah yeah okay and so what does this do
when you when we when we notice a
resisted or avoided emotion and we bring
the tool of emotional
inquiry to that moment what what happens
what will
change
yeah everything it's one of the most
powerful tools if it's
applied most people will slow down on
the application of it or find
distraction because it they can create
so much transformation so
quickly um but basically if you think
about when we resist emotions what it
does right so it is an attempt not to
feel our addictions are an attempt not
to feel our judgment is an attempt not
to feel
so this practice can reduce
self-judgment reduce the Judgment of
others this practice can change bad
habits this practice can um improve your
ability to communicate with others it
can help you stop avoiding conflict if
you look at like almost any one of the
things that you want to change in your
life right so if someone's like I want
to make more money right there's an
emotion around money they're avoiding
and so this inquiry practice is a way
not to avoid that to actually become
friends with it um if somebody saying oh
my marriage is on the rocks and there's
anot they're not wanting to feel there
is a way in which they're not speaking
their truth because they're scared of
some emotional consequence so when
people apply this tool and they apply it
regularly and for an extended period of
time a whole [__] ton
changes and and basically anywhere where
the where emotions are being avoided and
that's the cause of the
problem this tool will change that we we
it'll just start opening up that reality
okay all right all right so how how how
does it work what makes it what makes it
do that what makes it have that yeah so
so there there's a couple ways to
explain it the first one
is the the the the the when we have
resist something it's different than
when we don't so think about it this way
I'm going and talking to someone let's
say I'm trying to pitch somebody
on who's raising $40 million for my
company as an
example and the person is resisting me
the whole way I'm going to show up
differently then if the person I'm
pitching pitching is not a great word
for this but I'm telling the story of my
company to somebody who could fund it
um and they're not resisting they're
like open and they're curious and I'm
going to show up differently so we all
everything shows up differently when
it's resisted and when it's not
resisted emotions are no different
emotions show up differently when
they're resisted and when they're not
resisted so when we bring view into our
into our emotional experience when we do
emotional
inquiry and we bring that wonder and
that empathy and that
vulnerability basically what happens is
that it shows up differently and when it
shows up differently as it turns out
usually more comfortable
usually something you can invite and
welcome something that you start
appreciating something that you can
start seeing the signal through the
noise of those emotions
and so it allows us to stop avoiding
emotion it it is a one tool in helping
us not only be with but appreciate and
welcome our emotional experience and get
the benefit and get the signal out of
our emotions got it so I might ask
what's the benefit of that but that's
basically what every episode of our
podcast is about so I won't belabor that
point but what are what are some of the
important aspects of the use of this
tool if it is to work
that's a great question so the important
aspects for the use of the tool
so um so view is is the view is critical
right
so which I've gone over so I'm not going
to do that again the other thing is that
it it feels very intimate with the
emotions right so in some practices
emotional practices it doesn't feel
intimate it feels like you're kind of
above and watching m and there's a
watching aspect to this but there's
there's a deep intimacy to it it's like
the that's why I say like a little kid
picking up a frog there's an intimacy
it's like you're in it so that's a
really important part it's not the kid
looking at the Frog through glass right
exactly right okay and there's also an
there's an embod this is a whole body
thing it's not like a lot of emotional I
would call acceptances emotional
acceptance practices is it's like um
it's not
embodied it's like you're kind of
watching it but it's not like you're not
fully like you're not fully feeling the
physical experience of the emotion and
so this is very much about like feeling
into the emotional experience on a
sematic level so it's again it's another
way to say intimacy but it's like it
it's a whole body
activity it's it's not a it's not like a
figuring out it's it's there's no trying
to figure out frog yeah right you're in
wonder you're not in curiosity meaning
like you're like in the awe of the
experience and that's a fully embodied
thing rather than in a I'm trying to
figure you out experience got it yeah
okay so so what else View and being an
embodied
experience yeah the other yeah the other
really important part of this practice
is that that what happens typically is
that the practice has the first phase
which is okay here's this emotion qu oh
wow my emotions are like oh there's like
less resistance and it feels better and
this is great and wait where did that
anxiety go where did that like guilt go
where did that fear go and then you
start using the tool to get rid of the
fear to get rid of the guilt and then it
stops
working just like you doesn't work with
yeah just like view doesn't work with
partiality it's the same thing as soon
as you start doing it not as a form of
welcoming not as a form of
invitation but as a form of of
management getting rid of the tool just
stops
working yeah so the mo just like many of
any of our tools the moment you're
trying to use it to get to an
outcome then it's not the tool anymore
the tool is a tool of
exploration yeah yes that's right okay
so so what makes what makes emotional
inquiry different from some other
similar types of tools or guided
meditations out there and I'm imagining
people might ask about gendlin focusing
or realization process and and I don't
mean to like ask for a compare and
contrast against all the other bodies of
work there but what
is what is that question even yeah
is it sounds like what's the difference
yeah but what's what's the difference
that makes
this what it
is yeah what makes you bring what made
you make this tool for for this
work yeah
the the main the main thing that you
know when I started doing my o own
experiments with it and I think on this
podcast I've even talked about like
feeling like a gut punch and then going
back to the situation to feel that gut
punch over and over and over again so I
could fully explore
it I had been meditating for years and
and in the meditation it it felt like I
mean it was like there was a
non-personal aspect which was nice I was
watching it which was nice but there
wasn't like an Embrace there it was like
the difference between I can accept my
emotions and I can welcome my
emotions I can like I can't wait to feel
jealous again I can't wait to feel angry
again I can't like there like it's that
turn and for me the practices now
obviously I can't speak to all the
practices I'm not an expert in all the
practices some of them may or may not do
this and and I will say my experience in
things like focusing they're they all
have great benefits so I'm not in any
way ranking one above the other and I
and I highly suggest that nobody does
like
[__] better than go out and explore try
stuff out see what works for you see
when it works for you it's like that's a
run an experimental model I think that's
a far more productive way than putting
one thing above another thing um and the
reason that it was it was created what
what made it important to me and that
what I didn't find any place else in my
limited experience
was was that kind of it was like
observational and every place else it
was an acceptance it wasn't like a it
wasn't a welcoming it wasn't a warm
embrace it wasn't loving attention and
it wasn't fully embodied it wasn't like
I wasn't I was watching the way the odd
way to say it is I was watching my
emotional experience from the top down
rather from the inside
out and so I really wanted to create
something that really was from the
inside out that was really deeply a felt
intimate experience
that
had like the
emotional um uh like the emotional
underpinings but also like in a way
scientific where we're really making
observations and really figuring out
very minute parts of the emotional
experience the other thing that happens
is it's it is designed in such a way
where there's three stages of the
emotional of the emotional inquiry and
these different stages are in a very
particular order because I find them to
work really well in that order um and so
it it helps in in in that way as well
that it's a very staged approach of the
inquiry it's not just a general be with
that it is a very specific you know
here's the first set of questions second
set of questions third set of
questions yeah I also appreciate just
the way that like you were describing
the the intimacy of the the child with
the frog that yeah
the the the tool includes a lot of
sensory modalities it's like what is it
what's the color of this feeling what
does it look like from behind or in
front of it how does it where's the
boundaries of it and this helps to just
integrate across a lot of different of
of our of our sensory modalities to
allow them to talk to one another and
that's something I really appreciate
here and I'm also curious what are some
of the different ways it's actually even
it's I don't really geek out on this
much but it's actually even more refined
than that in the fact that it's like
there's you know I'm crossing midlines
there's a lot of ways in which the brain
understands things that like we're
utilizing and and we're we're also
playing with the sense of self in it
there's a the questions are designed to
go through a set of stages based on the
way that sematic experiencing and a lot
of the occupational therapy stuff
works and so what are some of the
different ways that it might look for
different people for example or in
different context in your life
I mean at the beginning I hope it
doesn't I mean yeah okay so at the very
beginning when people start doing it
they they you know the typical questions
are why would I ever want to invite
anxiety why would I ever want to welcome
anxiety um yeah from this perspective
that's funny from that perspective it's
not funny at all it's like wait I've
spent my whole life trying to [__]
get rid of that and that's the answer is
you've spent your whole life trying to
get rid of it it hasn't [__] worked
that's why like that's the reason why
you go to welcome it because each one of
these emotional experiences was a
rejected part of you and you continue to
reject it and so what is it like to face
it differently and I think that's
another thing just about the emotional
inquiry in general is like how like we
have a relationship with our emotions
and most of the time we're only dealing
with one side of that relationship we
want this emotion to be this way or that
way or not present itself or present it
self we're not working on how we
approach the emotion are we approaching
it with Wonder are we approaching it
with love are we approaching it with
care or are we approaching it with
disdain are we approaching with trying
to get rid of it and so and so that's a
that's a that's a really so that's the
first stage so first stage people are
like they can't even intellectually
conceive why they would want to welcome
it and and so in those particular places
it's really to just do the guided
thing and and just keep that little kid
view mindset and just keep it and just
see what happens just like take it fully
as experimental and just play with it um
as people start to see it and it's like
oh it's it's like oh I get this is
happening then the next thing that where
people interact with it is they're like
oh wait anxiety is actually can be like
really Pleasant and wait where's the
anxiety where did it go is that anxiety
or is that actually excitement what the
what the hell's happening and then
they're like oh I can get rid of my
anxiety by doing emotional
inquiry and then it stops working so
that's another stage that like typically
happens in it and then at some point it
kind of can become automatic where
you're just like like what what happens
you actually start getting really
excited to have uncomfortable
experiences o because you know the fre
that's on the other side right it's like
it's like if you were learning to hit a
fast
ball and like you you're and you and you
don't have a pitcher who throws fast
balls all the time when they throw them
you're like oh good now I get to learn
how to hit the fastball and so that's
very much a a big part of it where you
start really looking forward to it
because you feel how much freedom and
access you have on the other side of it
and when that stage happens then you
know the emotional inquiry can happen
much more rapidly it's just like oh good
like because then you're just welcoming
this emotional experience and and
listening to what it has to say to you
and then it just kind of becomes this
automatic thing that you still need to
occasionally go back to like the long
form just to make sure that you're not
co-opting or missing something but yeah
that's generally how it moves what I so
so speaking so yeah relevant to the
different ways that it might look there
are what I heard you say that there
people have different patterns around
those emotions that I imagine they're
just going to bring into the emotional
inquiry so for one person their first
emotional inquiry practice might look
like oh all right it's time to endure
this emotion and another one might be
like okay I'm just gonna like jump
straight through it to the other side
another one might be I'm gonna sit above
it and observe it and right look what's
happening in my body but I'm not really
there so that that might be or I got to
get this right I got to get this
emotional inquiry right and
cut off all their emotions yeah yeah and
then and then there's also the different
ways that it looks throughout the
journey where your first time I might be
every morning sitting down and listening
to one of the guided
meditations and it might mean at one
point having a difficult conversation at
work and suddenly being like Oh wait I
could right now do a little bit of
inquiry on this yeah even in the middle
of the conversation I'm having just take
a moment to pause and be with that
feeling in
myself and that then and then it can be
anything in
between correct yeah yeah and and it
is it isn't I would even say I could be
with the fiend or I could invite the
FI I can Sab her there it won't make
sense to anybody who's doing like when
you first download like you go to the
thing and you download and you listen
this won't make sense to you but maybe
the 10th 20th 30th 40th time you do it
it'll make sense which is like it's a
sabering it's like there is like H every
emotion has like a a level of pleasure
to it if you can really savor it you
know it's just like a it's like a deep
tissue massage there's a way to enjoy it
and the more you enjoy it the less
resistance there is the more enjoyable
it
becomes and so
for a lot of people who are listening to
this they've they've taken the course or
they're in the course most of them
haven't and so I'm curious like how does
how does this tool fit into the context
of a
course and also how can somebody who's
not taking a course at all yeah use this
in their
lives yeah so like I said it can create
a lot of transformation very quickly so
it's really important to be uh taking
care of yourself
grounded massage hot baths it's like
make sure your nervous system is really
well taken care of if you're doing this
in any kind of concentrated way
um uh also you know there's not
particularly a rush to it meaning like
it it's there's a rush to it in the fact
that like oh if I do this and I'm
dedicated transformation will happen
quickly and I'm not going to be in so
much pain for as long there's not rush
into it is that like if you don't get to
it that your Pain's still going to be
there so you know like it's always going
to be there to work on so
so so I would say the the priority is to
do it while taking care of your nervous
system while making sure that you are
getting the rest that you need and the
integration time that you need so that's
that's important in any
context um for people who are in the
decisions course like you have a
tremendous amount of support people you
have a lot of support in that room you
in those rooms you have people who are
are dying to you know care for you and
support you people who are going through
the same stuff you have all these tools
you have access to all these coaches
there's like all this beautiful parts to
it and so that's designed so people can
do that transformation quickly um
or with a lacity I I wouldn't be quick
but
um and so I would say take advantage of
that and and I would say outside of the
group and one-on-one work this is the
place you want to focus is doing that
two or three times a day doing that
work um for people outside of the
course do it experiment with it play
with it um take care of your nervous
system run experiments find out what
works for you find out what doesn't work
for you and if you get into it and you
find like you can't do it without the
support of a course join the course next
year if you get into it and you want
like The Logical placees The Logical
integration and the integration with
decision- making and habits and
everything then the course might be
really useful to you I think the the
other main thing if you're doing it
without the course is
like having the conversation with
friends and family if you're really
dedicated to it about how you need
support in the process and ask for that
support and ask because there'll be a
lot of changes really
quickly yeah to to that end to the to
the changes you had mentioned earlier
how there's a there's an aspect of like
seeing through the sense of self that's
involved here and one thing that I've
noticed is that if if I go into
emotional inquiry with the notion of who
I am being
being concrete and solid and you know
the kind of decisions that I make being
decided and then I'm like okay I'm going
to do the emotional inquiry then I'm
going to go do exactly the thing that I
was going to do anyway uh it doesn't it
doesn't tend to work it's like I have to
go into I have to go into it with the
with a childlike perspective of being
intimately in Wonder with the Frog as
well as with myself my sense of self my
my sense of what kind of decision I
might expect myself to make having
actually integrated and experienced and
savored any of the emotions that come
up yeah yes that that's so well said and
what a great reminder and and it's funny
like today this morning some somebody
asked there's quite a few people who've
done the course before doing the course
again and somebody asked why are you
back and I think I don't know what made
them ask that question I could imagine
what made them ask that question is does
it not work do you need to do it twice
um but it was really cool to
to but it was really cool to uh to see
the responses which was I'm a completely
different person now so I know that this
thing will affect me differently because
I'm I've changed so dramatically in the
last year it was a really neat like
perspective on what brought them back
they're like oh it's like a refresher in
and like anything you know it's like
what makes you come back to a Meditation
Retreat right there's um a practice form
of it and then it just becomes automated
after a while which is a really nice
state to be in yeah yeah I feel like
what makes me come back to this tool
which is a foundational tool in our work
is the same thing that makes me come
back to a
sunset day after day you know [__]
that's so good that's exactly it yeah
yeah oh wow beautiful oh that's H [__]
yes I want to end the podcast right
there that's [__] so beautiful yeah
well not quite there we're GNA end it
with a reminder that in the show notes
you can find a link to access this tool
and enjoy
it yep and you can ask questions of us
on the podcast page about it if you want
to you can also ask questions on Twitter
so anyway you want to get in contact
with us and interact we enjoy that yep
on Twitter we are on X we are art ofac
comp and uh we both have our personal
accounts there as well yeah
and oursite yeah Fu Joe Hudson and Eric
kler it's hard to say yours with the
underscore [__] you in the show
notes all right thanks thanks for a
great great uh great session BR
appreciate it yeah thank you and thank
you everybody for listening take care